Today is Sunday. It is a beautiful morning, fall
morning.
Roy, do you do you remember? Who served in the bank
here before Deadrich did? Didn't
Clapton Boss serve right after Deadrich?
Yeah. Well, I know Deadrich. Deadrich was the
first man that I ever heard to bid in the bank. Well,
that's the only one I could. They asked me the day
before yesterday, and I said, Deadrich is the
first man I can think of. Now, if there was another
one before then, I don't know it. But I didn't know.
Well, now let me see. Clapham Bar
was, he was after debtors, I know because. Yes, I
know that. I don't know who was before, now maybe,
what about the Ropers? Well, I just don't know. I
know that there was one of those that was connected
with it at one time, but I don't remember. They have
this open over here at Marble Falls. Yes. The Roper
House. Yeah, the old Roper House. That's right.
And I remember them because they named Roy Roper
after me. Yeah. And he was my namesake. I know that.
And that's a long time ago. Yeah, that's been
plenty years ago. But I remembered, I knew that,
too, that that was right. They did. And you know
some one of the Browns. Ed Brown. Ed Brown. That's
who it was. I couldn't think. He lived here. Old Man
Shopper Brown lived down here. He lived down here
next to Earl Rickson. I know all of that bunch down
there. And they... And the Ulrichs, they just kept
adding to their place. Old man Ulrich, you know, he
was an old miser. Yes, he was. He never spent a
nickel for anything. No, but he sure enough, he was
getting the clapping bars, you know. Oh, yes. He
married a clapping bar girl. He married a clapping
bar girl. And so, you know, that all made a
difference. And I knew them from scratch. And
Helbert and all. And Willie Gore never would have
known, got out of the first root if it hadn't been
for Helmuth Clappenbaugh. Yeah. That is, well, I
have heard my daddy say that. Oh, of course.
Everybody knew that. But, you know, Willie would
just tell stuff like, you know, he knew it all.
Nobody else knew anything. And Clappenbaugh
really passed him. I know that. That all worked
out. Yeah, Brown. And Brown lived here and he had a
grocery store here. Old Man's Hopper. They talked
about Old Man Lawson called him, you know, from
down the river. Yes, down the river. I rode old
Spanish all the time, a little Spanish horse that I
had. Of course, he played out pretty quick. And I
got old Barney Gibbs then. Old Man Al Grady used to
ride all the time. And they were my first two
horses. Then Dan Crowder gave me another horse
called Billy Boy, a rolling horse. I got up then to
be about four or five years old and got to where I
could ride. Well, I think I was 10 years old when we,
nine or 10, something like that, when we moved down
to the place down on Miller Creek. And Papa, Will
Russell beat Papa for sheriff, you know, that
year. Yes. He stayed on a couple of years, I think,
and then quit. But anyhow, they just had all that
stuff going on. You know, Uncle Buddy, Jay
Chapman, was Will Russell's clerk. Or, you know, I
said, today they call them deputies. But he
clerked what they called then clerk. He kept the
office and made out the tax reports and sheets and
things and assessing work and all of that for the
sheriff. And believe it or not, 1901,
is when Russell built that house where Linden
boyhood home. And they, in place of getting the
lumber from Fredericksburg, but on account of the
sand being so heavy, The horses and places along
between, well, we always called it the old
Schaefer Lane. You couldn't hardly get through
it. It bogged down. And that Blackland Field right
below High Store. And you just, the manuses and
the... Took all day to go to all of them?
Absolutely. And you couldn't do it. And they
hauled that stuff out of here from New Brunsville.
My goodness. Then cut through the pastures. Yeah.
Oh, I know, gee whiz. And I just, and knowing that,
you know, when I tell them those things, they don't
really believe it. But I knew that Roy would
remember about that as well as I did. And do you know
that old house that was just a two-room and a porch
that Nat Stubbs did his law practice in, you know,
down there? Yeah, down here at this old house. Yes,
right down there, back of the old garage, right in
there. Well, you might say, well, he was... In his
backyard. By the jail. Yeah, back by the jail.
That's exactly right. And there was an old
hand-dug well back there. And
Vernon Crider's daddy, Rob Crider, bought that
house and took it and built the house on the corner
that leasemans live in today and stuccoed it.
That's the old Stubbs. I didn't know that he bought
it. Yeah, he bought it. Well, I didn't know
whatever would come of it. Yes, sir. And you just
took it away. He bought it for $250 and took it up
there in the original two rooms, just like it was.
He tore the porch off of it or set it up there in their
stucco. And that was the old Nat Stubbs office.
Well, I didn't know that. That Rob Crider bought
it. Well, he did. Rob Crider bought it. that's one
of the oldest houses is it now it's where uh right
opposite the post office on the corner there oh and
you know they've stuccoed it and built onto it but
those two original rooms are still there oh meat
market there yeah i knew all of that the harwood
kids lived down there and all that say do you
remember when mr when you lived up there on the
river across the river over at the place where old
Manistrigler... Lickball. Well,
I was up one day, I was always trading with Mr.
Johnson, you know. Yeah. He was just one of my best
friends I ever had. And so he took you and put you on
the front and put Margaret in the middle and... I
bet it was Lennon. Not Lennon. James Ely? James Ely
put him behind. And not a thing in the world on him.
He had a little old sorrow coat there, bald-faced
coat. And he walked up, kicked him in the end. Yeah.
And he just wasn't running off. His heart scared
him. And he went running his best right down
through there. And he just hollering and laughing
as much as he could. And we all fell off. Man, the
grass burrs all over everything. And they just
squalling and running every direction you ever
saw. And you remember that? Oh, yes, I do. And why he
did that, I never could understand. But he didn't
care. You know what he'd tell us? He said, a good
cowhand never squalled when it hit the ground. And
you know, he was trying to break us from crying. But
boy, those grass spurs would stick. Oh, don't you
know. Oh, you bet. Bull nettles. And he'd always
tell us that a good cowhand never squalled if he hit
the dirt. But I'll tell you. I'll trade him old
Arthur, an old horse I had. Yes, I remember old
Arthur. Old Arthur swam that river and saved Tom
Martin that time, don't you remember, my daddy? He
what? Swam that Perknellis River in 1915 when he
was high. Oh, yeah, yeah. That's right. He took old
Arthur. Arthur would swim a river. He would swim
anything. That's right. I trained him down there
in that creek. Oh, oh. Oh, down there at Harv Davis
Place. Yeah, that was the old lower... Miller
Creek. Yeah, Miller Creek. Yeah. And do you know
that Tom Martin was on a tree, willow tree, out,
well, down below where the Texas White House is
now. And he, the river came down. He started to
cross in his buggy. He'd been to Fredericksburg to
see Olga Priest, whom he finally married. And He
had washed his horse and buggy away, and he hung
onto a tree. And Papa came and got old Arthur, the
one that Roy is talking about, and swam that river
and put Tom on old Arthur, and he came out the river
down below Grandpa Johnson's old place, which is a
good mile from where he came in. Now, I will tell you
that, and the river was really high. at that time.
But old Arthur knew about the rivers. Yes, he did.
And I tell you what I did. I traded him to him for two
little old roan ponies, a year old and a
two-year-old, and a brew horse that he got from old
man Dederidge. That's right. Three. He gave me the
three for him. You know the old... And then he got on
him and he The first time he got after a cab, he
turned back so quick he fell off over his head.
Right, just kept riding. That's right. He would
really turn. You bet. He was part perching, you
know. Oh, yeah. And the first horse that I can
remember that had a wavy mane. You remember how
wavy that mane? Yeah, wavy mane and tail. Mane and
tail. And the first one that I can ever remember
having a wavy mane and tail. That's the perching,
you know. Perching in them that showed up. It sure
did. Of course, you know, that doesn't mean
anything to the average horse. boy or girl today
but to me that was such a pretty thing to see that
that wavy mane and papa kept it the four top trim
just so oh and it was a pretty thing he was a good
horse well he was a good looking horse you bet he's a
good looking horse good looking horse and i tell
you i like it i had well i had another one before no it
was after i had author again and i got uh Well,
anyhow, Arnold Davis was working. Arnold
Hitzfeld was working for us down at this, oh, down
where British dug for the gold, you know. Yeah.
Well, he,
anyhow, I was leading this horse for Arnold to
ride. As a mare, I believe. Anyhow, he's riding up.
And he kept saying, give her slack, give her slack,
give her slack. And I kept giving more slack. And
so, you know, Arthur, he was used to whenever you
stopped, he'd stop one. You bet. And if you run
ahead of him, he'd just set back and stop. Well, he
just turned that horse, the Somerset, by a square
back on him. him, and it liked to kill him, he turned
his back right under him, and if I hadn't had the
help when I did, I guess it would have broke his
back, but he fell sort of sideways, and he fell off
in the thicket, and he sure let me hold that horse
right after that, but he was a cow horse. He sure
was. But I roped a cow on him one time, down at the
Phillips Ranch and he couldn't run fast enough on
it just to barely catch a cow and I couldn't get
enough slack to catch to take up the slack you know I
couldn't yeah and so old Arthur was going just as
hard as he could run and that cow was going right
down into a canyon down into that blocker hauler
canyon blocker canyon down where they used to
round up cattle you know and put two And I think, no,
let me see. I believe the Johnsons had that. They
had it. Yes. The blocker, huh? They had that lease.
Yeah, I know they did. So they, he was going just as
hard as he could. And I saw one of these, what you
call these, Spanish oak. Yeah. Tickets down
there. to the left, to the right, I mean. And so I
just began to bear off as hard as I could. That cow
was going right down that canyon just with an old
bell ringing and she was running and taking him as
hard as she could and he couldn't run fast enough to
cut her off. And I was pulling as hard as I could and I
saw that chick there and I went around on one side
and she went on the other and I tell you, we met
around there. And Arthur, She fell down, turned
her feet square up, and Arthur fell square over,
and his feet were up, and I went on around and
circled around, holding the bridle rein as hard as
I could, and like to kill me, you know, I was right on
top of all those legs and things, and the fella come
down, I believe it was Valdrick or somebody. I
imagine it was Val because he lived there. Yeah, he
lived on the place. And so we finally got the thing
settled up and she went on down and I didn't bother
her either. I never did look any more for her. But he
couldn't run fast enough to catch any, he could
barely run fast enough to head a cow. You know, B,
people, you tell people today that these sage
hills out here and all around here were not covered
with Spanish oak back in the early days. That's a
come-late deal here. No, we had very few. When he
said that Spanish oak thicket, let me tell you
there were few and far between, and that was a
landmark. You'd say, well, I'll meet you at such
and such place. And the Spanish oak thicket down
there on the other side of the gorge, you knew where
it would be because there wasn't any Spanish oaks.
Very few in through here. And another thing, the
cedar, there wasn't any cedar. No. We didn't have
cedar like we have now. But what they did have was
good cedar. You bet. It was virgin cedar. It wasn't
this come up and bush out. It really was a different
type. This whole holding place down here on the
river now where Dr. Burleson's old place, he has it
all, everything, oh, it's old, old, old. And...
The cedar is just as good today as it was the day it
was cut. It's all hard cedar. That's right. And you
just think you're... Well, that old house that we
tore down on the ranch down there was cypress
lumber that was milled back in 18 and 58, and I'm
taking the outside... part of it and you can't cut
it now you may think you can but uh those pieces that
are short enough i'm going to use every one i'm on
this porch and i'm going to burn in it when it was
milled And when it was borrowed, who put it up? See,
that old place that we have is a land grant place,
and the deed to it is larger than a... I mean, the
land grant deed that was signed by Governor Davis
of Texas is, well, I guess it's, I don't guess
anything about it, but it's at least two feet long
and two feet wide, square. It looks like a big
diploma of some description. that I gave to Corky
because naturally he'd be the one to get it but now
that is something else and and to know that old old
lumber is still going to be used oh it's good this is
good it's still elastic just as good as it ever did
and you know this that we had some ash that were used
for beams in that house. My goodness, you can't cut
it. It's so solid and heavy as it can be. How did they
mill it then? Well, when it's green, you can do it.
Oh, you can. But after it seasons, it's just like
rock. Well, just a few people had a broad ax, you
know, and they used it, you know, just like these
size blades, you know. I've got an old size blade
out there, and I've got a cradle Grandfather
Jackman used in cutting grain. You know, he taught
me how to stack hay, too. Is that right? He taught
me. They put me right on the stack with this.
Grandpa Chapman and he showed me just where to pull
it and all that. And we'd thrash and I'd stack. And
do you know, Bea, you have two different
pitchforks. One that you use to throw it on the
wagon with and one you use to stack with. That's
right. The handles are made different and the
prongs are made different. Right, Roy? Three and
four prongs. That's right. I didn't know that. You
bet that's right. Mother asked me the other day.
She was out getting weeds out of my backyard and old
dead grass. And she said, have you got a pitchfork?
And I said, what in the hell use would I have for a
pitchfork? I haven't seen one since I was a kid. I
said, no, I got a shovel, but I sure as hell haven't
got a pitchfork. And I thought, well, Mother, you
must be out of your mind. Where would I get a
pitchfork? If I had one, I'd have it hanging in my
house so nobody would steal it. Well, when I told
them that you had different styles for when I
worked at the old Johnson settlement, do you know
they looked at me Like you're an idiot. Like I was an
idiot. That's exactly right. And they couldn't
believe it. Oh, that's right. They had three and
four prongs. And you had to use one for one and one
for the other. And to stack it,
it had a bowl. I never will forget Mrs. Johnson. We
were across the river over there to Culberson
Place, you know. Yeah. And the old house that lived
over on the north side. The north side of the, yeah.
And so this fellow Culberson, oh, I don't know
whether he lived there then or not, but anyhow, he,
Mr. Johnson was there, and they had the pens down
there, too, up on the side of the hill. And so, Mr., I
don't know what, uh, uh, James Eady was riding now,
but some horse. I'll bet he was riding. It was a
gentle horse, but anyhow, he says, hadn't even
yet, James Eady, the slick rock crossing there,
it's all slick. It's bad. You bet he sure was. He
went trotting off down that way and said, hurry up
there, hurry up there. Sitting up there like old
Jim Chapman. Make him run. And James Ely never
needed to get him into a run. You know, he just lay
him a trot. And he's just like old Jim Chapman. You
know, Papa, my daddy would get after Ely more times
than one because he wouldn't hustle. But James Ely
wasn't the fast-moving type. He just never did get
up in a hurry. And Margaret and I were always just
fast as lightning. But James Ely was never quick,
uh-uh, never in a hurry. Well, I tell you that the
old man Culberson, he lived there. He says, Carl,
don't let old Ray Ranger run away with you now. And
showing up. Old Carl didn't care how you run. He'd
start home with him. He'd start to running. He'd
just sit up there and whip him and let him go and run
him just as hard as he could. And he knew all was
crazy about Bessie Scofield. Oh, yeah. He sure
was. You know... You look back and think about
these things in your early childhood. Do you know
it wasn't anything, or it didn't excite us,
Margaret and I, one bit, if our daddy put us on a
horse. If he put us on there, he expected us to ride.
And he didn't expect us. He would tell us that a horn
of a saddle wasn't used to hold you. It was used to
wrap the rope around you. I can remember that just
as well if it is yesterday. He said, if you want to
stay on, you ride with your knees. And I'll never
forget that, you know, in riding. Well, you do. You
clamp, and you hold tight, and your spurs will
balance. But you balance yourself with your
reins, bridle reins, and it's not one person out of
a hundred will do it. That's right. You're right.
If you're a good rider, you balance your... He's
gonna do that, too. Oh, listen, Mr. Johnson was a
good one, I tell you. He was a real man. He... It
tickles me. I told Corky about that the other day. I
said, I don't know how old I was, but I was just a kid.
Just a little one. Oh, I guess maybe I could have
been 10, 11 years old, but not much more. They was
having races down here at Cypress Mills. And Roy
was looking for somebody to ride his horse. He
wanted to sell it for Polo Horse. That's when all
this bunch of Atlanta old Yeah, those Hardin boys,
they were good. Yes, they were. Margaret
Burleson and I were there, and they mounted us on
horses, and we rode in races at Cypress Mill just
like veterans. We mounted at the Kirkendall
Ranch, too. Yeah, down at the Kirkendall Ranch. We
went down there, and we went down and helped put on a
show down there. That's right. We had races, you
know, for the, and this, oh, yeah, I got one horse
from, uh, Bernison. Yeah? That he was a racehorse.
If you'd whip him, he'd outrun any horse that they
ever run him against. And if you didn't whip him,
he'd stop right in the middle of the track.
Absolutely. You remember my daddy's hollering?
Daddy had the shrewdest voice. Shrill, I mean. And
he'd say, put the bud to her, sister. Put the bud to
him. And I'd just bring that old whip back just like
that. I can remember that just as well as it is
yesterday. But to think about... Those things
what you and then you see the youth of today. They
couldn't ride a stick horse around the block
without falling down. That's true.
But I guess I couldn't do a lot of it. I'll tell you,
you couldn't. I couldn't ride a skateboard, and
they can do that, so I guess it evens up. I'd
probably break my neck on a skateboard. Nobody
rides except barrel races and roping and things
like that. You couldn't pin a milk cow on a horse.
No, they couldn't do it to save their soul. My daddy
used to say, if you can't get on a horse and follow a
cow, bring it in. you'll just never amount to a hell
of beans. Well, we had to work. We had to work hard.
We had to work day in and day out. I was thinking
about these whole steers, Tom Stribble, and we had
to deliver them around the mountain.
And we Well, we cut through the pasture. Went
through the hide pocket and then right straight on
through. You know what we had, though, when we got
to Armand Ware's? That's a horse of another color.
We had the detour there. But anyway, we finally
came out to old Salter Springs. Mm-hmm. And then
brought them up the river, I mean up the lane there.
And got over to Ms. Stribling's, the old Stribling
Ranch, and pinned them. We would take them over to
Marble Falls. We had to help Tom drive those things
into Marble Falls. We spent the night there. And I,
Miss, Grandma Striblin had come in from the Zeke
tank fishing, and she had a turtle, and she cooked
that turtle, and she said to Margaret and I, said,
well, you want something to eat supper? And
Margaret said, I'm awful hungry. Tom said, well,
Ma, give these kids something to eat. They're
hungry. They've worked. And so she gave us a bowl of
turtle soup. And Margaret looked at it, and she
smelled it, and she said, what kind of soup is this?
She says, Tuttle soup. Margaret pushed it back,
and she asked me, said, aren't you going to eat
that? I said, no, ma'am. I don't believe I'm
hungry. And she said, oh, you're too high-toned to
eat turtle, I guess. And Margaret said, I don't
know whether I'm too high-toned, but I don't want
turtle soup. And then we walked out on the porch.
And Tom gave each one of us 20 cents. And we went over
to Blastie's store, and we brought a nickel box of
crackers and a nickel box of sardines. Can you beat
that? Yeah. And then we got the rest of it in stick
candy. Oh, my gosh. That's the way they did it. I
know that things like that happen. You know it, and
to think about it today is just unreal. Yeah.
Sardines, 89 cents a can. Yes. Cheapest sardines.
Cheapest ones you can get. Well, I tell you that Mr.
Johnson, he was a good friend of mine. Really a good
friend of mine. He worked us, I guarantee you. But,
you know, in reality, it didn't hurt you. No. You
know, I rode old Carrie. Old Carrie Nation? He'd go
to roping, loan me a horse, and take my horse, and
ride my horse. And I could rope a goat. I could do
that. And I...
Oh, no, I don't have anything for that. Oh, no,
unless you... Another thing that was quite
amusing was Sid Hyde. You know, he's the best roper
that you ever saw in the pasture. He never caught
one in the... In an arena in his life. You couldn't
get him... He couldn't catch one in the arena with a
100-foot... rope or anything. No, sir. He just
couldn't. You put him in the brush, he'd just take
and throw. He'd just catch one any way you wanted
him. But he couldn't do it in front of people or in an
arena to show off. Well, Harry could do it. Yeah,
Harry could. He could just run in. And I let him have
a horse one time. I let Harry, not Harry, but Ed have
a horse, a Dunn horse I called Butter. brought him
out at uh above Kerrville there and uh I don't
remember where the shoemaker the fella had his
horse and I paid a hundred and fifty dollars
hundred dollars for him and I don't know I think I
paid a good big price for it at that time but anyhow
that horse was a racehorse he was Davis had the
Othello Davis had the sire on him. And he, Rattler
Cole, he was by Rattler, that's what it was. And so
he took pistol load and I was riding him when Dick
was, I brought those horses down from Rock Springs
and I came through Blanco's and missed having to go
through, you know, quarantine. Yeah. And I got
over there and then Dick was riding a little old
Spanish mare.